And at the beginning I talked about
when you look at teachable machine on
the homepage, at least, we worked with
this one, but there's also an audio model.
And I can show that quickly.
We don't need to implement it because
the second part of the project is going to
be a bit longer.
A question?
>> Is there a rule of thumb when training
these models like how many samples.
For instance,
someone said they did 120 images, and
it seemed like the result was
roughly the same as what?
>> Sure.
>> You did in 30.
>> So the thing is because
we're using the camera as well,
it also depends on what's in your
backgrounds or the lighting.
For example, if you try to teach a model
and let's say you're in like a dark room
or something because it's making
predictions based on what it is in pixels.
If you can't really make the difference
between your background or your movements
or something, sometimes you will have
more troubles not predicting something.
But in terms of number of images,
it will depend on the difference
between your gestures.
So as I said before,
let's say, for example,
like I put my hand here, and
then I just go a little bit up.
There's not that much a difference
between the position of my hand.
So you will need more samples for
the model to be able to really see
a correlation between like, well pixels
are and what label is associated with it.
So I don't know necessarily
the context in which other people
are training their samples here.
But it could be a bunch
of different things.
And usually I would say
more images is better but
it will depend if there's a ton happening.
Maybe in the background is
like colors everywhere and
things you might need more samples so
you can really isolate you from the rest,
but I would say it depends again.
[LAUGH] Sorry, you had another question.
>> To that point,
I ran into a little anomaly where
I did winking left and right eyes.
And I didn't realize that when I recorded
the right eye my head was closer to
the right of the frame.
So then when I would go to test it I
didn't blink my left eye my head was close
to the right of the frame you would think
I was doing the right because I'm guessing
more pixels were changed.
>> Yes, exactly, so that's also the kind
of tricky thing maybe with transfer
learning is or at least with images is
that sometimes if you want it to work,
you have to be in the exact same spot.
Or if I'm training it on a white
background, but then I go and
I train it in a kitchen or in a park,
it will be a little bit different because
it's not isolating you necessarily.
There's no real body recognition because
it could just be my hand without
my body and
it would still have to learn what's going
on there in terms of patterns with pixels.
So yeah, it depends.
Sometimes you could
also be training it and
you're closer to the screen
than other times.
So the best thing to do in that case is,
first of all,
you need to probably understand in which
context you want people to use your app.
If you know that they are gonna
be outdoors in the park,
then maybe you want to train your model
while being in that environment as well.
Or you also have a lot
of different samples.
So you could have,
you could record it like here, and
then you go somewhere else and
you record the same thing.
So that you give it enough samples so that
the model can try to figure out what's
the thing that's like similar
from all of these images.
If I go in a park and I'm like this,
and then I go in the kitchen and
I'm like this, same thing.
It's easier to see
the pixels that are similar,
rather than like the ones
that are different.
So yes, in this workshop here we started
with 30, wasn't quite right, then 100,
it worked for me.
But depending on the use case and
the environment,
you might have to do a lot more.
So if you think about production
application of like machine learning
models, they are trained with
like millions of samples.
So if you were maybe recording yourself,
like a million times,
then that would work better.
But just to show you how it works,
we maybe don't have the time
to train a million samples.
But in general, more samples is better
than the quality of it matters.
There's another tool called Tiny Motion
Trainer, and that is using Arduino boards.
So if you don't know what Arduino is like,
that's a drawing of it.
But it's like a mini macro controller, and
there's one specifically that
works well with TensorFlow.js.
So it was kind of like, I think,
a collaboration between the two.
Where now instead of normal TensorFlow.js
models or TensorFlow models, you have
TensorFlow Lite, so they're even lighter
to be able to run on macro controllers.
And what that allows you to do?
I don't have my device,
right now, but it's also a UI.
I'm not gonna be able to actually
show you what's behind or
actually proceed without committing.
So what's happening in that UI is that
if you do have this little device,
I think that's an Arduino BLE Sense or
Arduino IoT Sense, there's two of them.
And what you can do is just that.
So you connect your Arduino, you connect
it to the browser using the web USBAPI.
And you pick certain settings,
the threshold of difference of movement,
the number of samples,
the delay between captures, and
you start doing the same thing
that we do in teachable machine.
But with data here, so
if I wanted to do a punch gesture,
then I would create punch and
then I would start recording the same way.
And it would actually instead of taking
snapshots of webcam, it would take live
feed from this little device that has
an accelerometer and a gyroscope.
And while I do a punch gesture in the air,
it would record all that live data and
you will be able to do that
with multiple gestures as well.
So that's kind of what I
was talking about, where,
if you're depending what you're building,
you might not want to work with
transfer learning from like images.
You might want to do transfer
learning from motion data.
And that's actually this tiny motion
trainer application is what I use.
No, not that.
Is what I used to do the street fighter,
like the air street fighter thing.
I built this thing in multiple ways.
No, that's brain sensors, not that one.
This one.
So the way that I built this
was like four different ways.
So using four different sensors.
But you could rebuild that using
tiny motion trainer where you have
little Arduino.
And then I record it a few
times like punch, punch and
then hadouken the other one.
And using training relatively quickly
a machine learning model in the browser.
Then it is uploaded onto the Arduino via
Bluetooth, which is really cool as well.
And then it means that once you're
actually connecting your Arduino and
your custom JavaScript application,
you're able to get a label and
also have that on the screen as well.
So a little bit different.
We're not gonna do it in this workshop
because it requires a microcontroller that
you might or might not have.
But it's definitely something
that works as well and
they also have a very nice
UI to help you get started.
Hopefully that helps if
you're building something and
the webcam isn't the right media for you.
This?
>> Arduino has its own framework, right,
too for programming those devices?
>> So usually It's written in like C or
like the Arduino language.
That's kinda like a little bit different.
You can do Arduino stuff in JavaScript,
but
the JavaScript part doesn't
run on the Arduino.
Usually you have to install another
thing called Firmata that then kinda
like transcribe your JavaScript code
into what can run on the device.
So it's usually a little bit.
There's more delay because if
you're writing write in C,
it runs on the board and
it's like super optimized.
If you do Arduino stuff in JavaScript,
it works.
I've done it multiple times, but
it's you can't do applications that
are necessarily very time sensitive.
But for, again for [SOUND] for
this project I built a version with
an Arduino that was not the one
to use with Tiny Motion Trainer.
I think that was a new maker 1,000.
And the way that I did that is I created
my own gesture recognition model.
And hopefully you'll understand
a bit more in part three or
project three, how to do this.
But I recorded raw data a lot of
times doing different gestures.
And then I built a model in using Node.js,
and I plugged in,
it was Johnny 5 is the library to
use with Arduino and JavaScript.
And then sort of getting live data
using 25 in JavaScript, recording it,
everything, all the files
locally creating the model, and
then having WebSockets to
stream it back to the right.
There was a lot involved but
it's possible.
>> Yes.
>> We do have a course on Arduino.
>> Perfect.
>> And it's fairly recent too.
>> Okay.
>> Today and everything so
using the default kinda kit
you can buy off Amazon and
>> Yeah.
>> He programs sensors and stuff.
>> Like one that does light mode and
dark mode on a web page with turning off
the lights with a when you turn the
>> Yes no, that's that's super cool.
There's, again, here in this workshop
I'm talking about machine learning,
but you can definitely mix and
match a lot of different technologies.
I mean with hardware, you can also learn
about the web USBAPI or web Bluetooth.
And you can get to learn more about
these web APIs that are available and
they've been available for like a while.
But usually, I guess they're more used in
more kind of creative experimental stuff.
But I really like to mix and match.